# FireGallery

A private photo gallery web application built using [React](https://react.dev/) and [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/). The application allows users to register/login via email, upload images, which are stored in a Firestore database, and then view their own photos in a gallery.

## Menu
- [Getting Started](##Getting-Started)
- [Features](##Features)
- [Architecture](##Architechture)

## Getting Started
1. Install dependencies using `npm` or `yarn`
```shell
$ npm install
$ yarn install
```
2. Create a Firebase project and enable Firestore and Storage
3. Copy the Firebase project configuration and add it to `src/firebase/config.js` (replace current configuration)
4. Start app on `localhost:3000` (default) using `npm` or `yarn`
```shell
$ npm start
$ yarn start
```

## Features

- User authentication using Firebase Authentication
- Image upload using Firebase Storage
- Image display in a gallery using React Photo Gallery
- Image lightbox using React Images
- Realtime updates using Firestore

<!-- ### Backend

FireGallery uses [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/) as backend support for user authentication and photo storage.  -->

### Authentication

Users can create an account or login using their email address and password. The authentication process is handled by Firebase Authentication, which provides secure and easy-to-use authentication services.

<!-- #### Storage


### Frontend

FireGallery implements flexible row-like gallery display with lightbox.  -->

- Embedded form for both login and registration with clicking different buttons. 
- Error Display for login/registration 
- Auto UI-refresh after successfully login/register

### Image Upload

Users can upload images using a simple upload form. The images are stored in Firebase Storage, which provides secure and scalable cloud storage for user-generated content.

- File selector 
- Sync progress bar for upload progress inspection
- Auto UI-refresh after upload

### Image Display

Uploaded images are displayed in a gallery using React Photo Gallery. Users can click on an image to view it in lightbox form using React Images.

- Width-adaptive row-based display with original photo height-width ratio
- Lightbox modal

### Realtime Updates

The gallery is updated in real-time using Firestore, which provides a scalable database for storing and synchronizing data between clients and the server. When a new image is uploaded, it is automatically added to the gallery without requiring the user to refresh the page.

## Architecture

The app follows a typical client-server architecture where the client side is built using React.js and the server side is built using Firebase Cloud Firestore and Firebase Authentication.

### Frontend

The frontend is built using `React.js`, a popular JavaScript library for building user interfaces. The app uses React Router to implement routing and navigation. The user interface is built using Material UI, a popular React component library that provides pre-built UI components that can be easily integrated into any React application.

The frontend is responsible for handling user interactions and displaying data. Users can upload images to the app, which are then stored on Firebase Cloud Storage. The app also retrieves images from Firebase Cloud Storage and displays them in a gallery using the `react-photo-gallery` component. Users can click on an image to view it in a modal using the `react-images` component.

### Backend

The backend is built using Firebase Cloud Firestore and Firebase Authentication. Firebase Cloud Firestore is a NoSQL document database that allows for easy and scalable data storage, while Firebase Authentication provides an easy-to-use authentication system that allows users to sign up and sign in to the app.

When a user uploads an image, the app stores the image in Firebase Cloud Storage and creates a corresponding document in Firestore that contains metadata about the image (such as the title, the URL of the image, and the user who uploaded it). The app then retrieves this data from Firestore and displays it in the gallery.

Authentication is handled using Firebase Authentication. Users can sign up for an account using an email and password, or sign in using an existing account. Once signed in, the user's authentication status is stored in the app's state using the `useState` hook. The app then uses this status to determine whether to display the login page or the gallery page.

#### Data Structure

- `uid` - unique user_id generated by Firebase Authentication, indicating the owner of the corresponding photo
- `src` - the url of the corresponding photo, directing to Firebase Storage
- `height` - height of the photo
- `width` - width of the photo
- `createat` - timestamp, indicating the uploading time of the photo